Hayes welcome to this tutorial and let's do the final step before the big training step.
That is before the big training for loop.
So this final step is to split the questions and answers into the training and validation sets.
So I'm saying sets because we're going to make basically a set for the training questions a set for
the training answers then a set for the validation questions and the set for the validation answers.
And for those of you who see Krust edition for the first time well I remind that it is a technique that
consists of during the training keeping 10 or 15 percent of the training data aside which won't be used
to train the neural network that is which would be basically back propagate it.
And just to keep track of the predictive power of the model on these observations are like new observations.
So basically we're just testing the model on the side.
But during the training just to keep track of what it's capable to do on new observations.
And so this validation set that we have to make for both the questions and answers is exactly this 10
or 15 percent of the data on the site.
So let's apply cross-validation and that consist exactly of splitting the questions and answers into
four sets the training and validation sets.
So let's do it.
The first step we need to do is to get the index that will separate the First 50 percent questions of
all our questions and the next 85 percent of questions of all questions.
So basically we're finding the index that will split the first 50 percent questions and the last question
and we're going to call this index training validation split.
All right.
And how are we going to get this index.
Well that's pretty simple.
First this index is an integer.
I'm going to use the int function to make sure we have an integer and then inside this function will
basically do a simple operation that will basically multiply the total number of questions we have.
By 15 percent.
But then we'll probably get a float.
And that's why we have to use this function to make sure we have an integer because an index is always
an integer.
All right.
Let's make that simple operation we need to take the total number of questions we have.
And actually we're going to use our sordid clean questions list we made in part one data processing.
Remember there was the last step of the preparation of our questions.
That was the last update of the questions.
Basically these are all the questions all cleaned and sorted by the length of the questions and gathering
two sequences of unique encoding integers.
And so we're going to use this which contains the whole list of encoded questions we are going to use
this to get the total number of questions that we're going to multiply by 15 percent so that we get
this index of the split between the validation set and the training set.
All right so let's get this the total number of elements in selecting questions which we can get by
taking the len function of these sordid clean questions.
All right so that's the total number of questions basically and this we are going to multiply by 15
percent.
That is on point 15.
All right.
And that will give us the index splitting the first 15 percent of the questions and the last 85 percent
of the questions all right now that we have this index.
Well this is going to be very easy.
We'll get our training questions our training answers our validation questions and our validation answers
and to get them will take of course our sort of questions for the trainings that will go from this training
validation split index up to the end and for the validation that we'll go from the beginning up to this
training validation spit index and then to get the training and validation answers we'll take the Salten
answers list and to get the training answer as well same We'll take all the answers from this and direct
them to the end and to get validation answers will take all the answers from the beginning up to this
index.
So let's do it.
Let's start with our training questions.
Training questions.
And so now we're going to take our sordid clean questions and to get what we want.
Well what we need to get exactly is that 85 percent last questions of this whole list of Salten questions
and to get this we need to get all the indexes from the training validation split index.
So I'm copying that here.
Up to the net and a trick to take it up to the end it's just had this come in here and then nothing
that will take all the questions from this index up to the end in the whole list of Salten questions.
All right and I'm going to copy this because the rest is going to be quite the same.
Then we're going to get the training answers therefore we're placing here questions by answers.
All right.
And then same here as well we're going to get our trending answers from the sordid clean answers a whole
list of answers.
And same to get the training answers we're taking all the answers and the sorting answers list from
the training validation split index up to the end.
All right.
And now I'm going to copy these two lines because we're going to do the same for our validation questions
and our validation answers and so we'll just have a few things to place here.
First training by validation same here training by validation.
Then here we keep to selecting questions and the short answers because basically we just have to take
some other indexes which are complimentary indexes.
Starting from the beginning.
Therefore I'm cutting this up too.
Well this same training validation split index and since our validation questions are from the beginning
up to 15 first person questions.
Well we have to go from the beginning up to this training validation split index and therefore when
I'm going to do now is just copy this because it's going to be the same for our answers we of course
need to keep the right answers aligned with their questions.
Otherwise the dataset will not make any sense.
And there we go.
Now we have our training questions our training answers our validation questions and our validation
answers.
And so that's wonderful because basically there you go.
We are ready to start the big training for loop.
I'm super excited to start but I'll have to take a nap because I'm going to need a lot of energy for
this and also some chocolate.
But as soon as I get that I will start recording the biggest total of discours which is the training.
I can't wait to start.
I'm going to select this and execute.
And now we have our training questions training answers validation questions validation answers.
So we're more than ready to start the training until then Id been on P.